Whether in today's lesson you're going to start talking about sidebars in this first lesson.
You're going to start creating the structure for these design elements which are very important in a
WordPress theme.
But before we start you may have noticed that our theme is a bit different.
Now the theme is a bit more like our initial layout.
The one we presented at the beginning of the Course the top bar is already with the color we defined
initially.
The menu is already a little bigger etc. but before you start complaining and there's always someone
that will complain I'm sure as I said since the beginning of the course we will not focus on HCM male
and CSSA here in the course despite the fact that you really need HGL male and CSSA beauty of Wordpress
theme.
I think the most important in the course like this one here is to explain the Wordpress way of doing
things.
So for the moment I'm not going to record lessons explaining what I did in terms of CSSA for example
how it's changed colors.
That's the basics of web development which is not the focus of this course.
If we did that it would take you a long time to learn what I think is the most essential here wishes
explain how a thing works.
However you can see all the changes I've made in the files.
I'll make them all available for download as you know.
All the files are available in the second lecture of this course.
Everything organized by lesson.
So go ahead and download the files.
And there you can see the changes OK.
So here in the success file I have the code a bit more organized.
Here we have our Google phone call.
So minor changes to the heading elements the background colors the style for each section of the site.
Anyway several style changes.
Only very simple CSSA modifications nothing very special and other modification is here in the functions
file.
I just changed the order of the incudes files.
First we got the bootstrap files and then our template that says file given the nature of says this
will for us.
And he says US rule from our own sources file should be more important than the bootstraps sucess rules.
So for example if you want to override any bootstrap role using our template or CSSA file will be able
to do that if we head over to the content files.
You see that I've implemented that suggestion I gave you in the last lesson I've included the post class
function here within each article and using only sources and styled each both formats in different way
using the class relative to each post FIRMAT.
If you had the curiosity to implement the suggestion I gave you in the last lesson you must have understood
how it works.
If you didn't go ahead and give it a try that would be a very good exercise.
Well let's go over to the blog page
here in the blog list and page you can see that the post which have the video post format are different
from the ones with the image.
Post FIRMAT
the default post formats have a heading tag with a different color to changing the heading colors is
a very simple idea if you can remember the examples I showed you in the last lesson.
We can have even more advanced changes
also as you can see there is a new div here called meta info.
Actually it has been added to all the content files.
This will serve as a wrapper and help us style the first paragraphs which contains the date the author
categories and tags.
I've used this wrapper just to apply this great color to these links here and to make the text bolder.
So it's only success in a couple of Jamail modifications that were really special and nothing related
to WordPress itself.
That said you're going to start creating our sidebars.
But before that let's explain what those sidebars are OK.
For this let's just switch things for a moment.
This time I'll be working with the 2016 thing which is one of the native WordPress themes.
You see that on the right side we have this big area here.
Here in this area we have some features.
We have a search bar and Neriah with recent topics comments.
The whole area is what WordPress calls a sidebar and within that sidebar each small element has a functionality
it's called a widget.
We'll be learning about these two elements sidebars and widgets in this lesson and in next one you'll
notice during the course that we can create and position than practically anywhere in the thing.
This by the name of this element sidebar we can place them anywhere not just on the left or on the right
side of the theme.
So the first thing we're going to do is open up the functions file in the same way that we have previously
registered.
Our menus are going to register our sidebars for the scores you're going to first register choose sidebars
but you can register several sidebars for a single thing.
Let's create a sidebar that will be displayed on the home page.
And the second sidebar that will be displayed only on the inner pages.
More specifically on the blog page.
For now we only have 80 email markup in both areas but nothing is happening here.
Once we've created sidebars we can add whatever we just want.
For example here in the home page we can add a text widget and later on we're going to add a contact
for an on the blog page we can add widgets to display the latest polls for example but they can add
whatever elements we want in there.
Sidebars are futures that can bring a lot of dynamics to the same ones you create in the end user can
put whatever they want in there making their websites totally different from another one that uses the
same theme for example.
Ok enough small talk.
Let's get down to business so let's get back to our functions file.
This time we want to register our sidebars outside of the main configuration function.
Let's start by adding a new action
that's best to this action.
Call which widgets in its And lets trigger a new function on that hook.
Let's call this function learn W.P. underscore sidebars.
Notice that this function doesn't exist yet and you'll be creating it.
In fact you are doing the opposite of what we have been doing previously.
We first created the functions and then added an action but no problem at all here.
Changing the order of the factors doesn't change the product.
Now let's go ahead and create a function so function learn W.P. underscore sideburns and then it lets
begin registering our first Ciber to do this.
We want to use a function called register sidebar
inside that function.
We create an array
and in disarray we pass some arguments which I'm going to explain to you one by one.
First one is called name.
This is a title that you display in the admin area.
For example let's go to a perience
widgets.
This one here
let's separate each item of the array with a comma and on the new line.
Let's pass the second argument which is called Id pay a lot of attention here.
OK.
Because this idea must be unique as you're going to register choose sideburn each ID argument needs
to be different.
Also avoid the use of special characters here or spaces.
OK let's consider this value as a variable.
This way we don't make any mistake the next argument is description this argument corresponds to a short
description that also appears in the abdomen area.
This one here
OK all the arguments we've passed so far will be used in the dashboard when we are inside the widgets
page.
The remaining arguments refer to the display of which we did individually.
The first one in this category is called before on the square widget let's just type in the argument
and pass an empty value for now.
And the next one is after underscore widget.
Same thing.
Let's just pass an empty value.
Do you understand what they are for.
I need to use some visual aids that let's go back to our 20:16 theme
if we inspect each widget in the sidebar you'll notice that it has a well defined structure each widget
is inside the wrapper element which in this case is the nature section.
Each section has its ID and it CSSA class.
We also notice here that they all have a heading element all heading our age style.
Now we get very important information for the other arguments we are going to be using in the survey.
For the before rigid arguments we pass the H UML elements that serve as a wrapper for each side bar
widget for 2016.
We saw then a section tag was chosen.
In our case let's pass a DIV tag with the widget wrapper class.
It can be much more specific and include CSSA ID for example.
But for this lesson let's make it simpler.
If you want you can take a look at the native WordPress themes and check out how they do that for the.
After we did it just closed the HCM Altaic we opened above the last two arguments will be respectively
before underscored title
and after the score title
4 before title we passed the heading tag for each sidebar which it last best to tag with a class called
Widgets.
Title
and in after title.
Let's close out the H2 tag.
All right.
We have all the structure in each register and use our first sideburn as coverture dashboard and activate
our theme again.
And now if we over over the appearance menu we have the widgets option and click on that and here on
the right side it can see the side by recreated.
As I explained you got here the way its title and description.
Great isn't it.
Yes it's so cool that we're going to create one more sidebar.
This time it will be used on the blog page to do this.
It's very easy.
We just copy this entire register sidebar function.
Be very careful because when you copy that semicolon to you OK.
And let's face everything down here.
After that semicolon now we just need to change some values here.
Let's go ahead and change the name
the ID and the description of the second sidebar.
Rest of the code may look the same but if you wish you can change both the tags and the radius of each
element let's say all this
and no in the dashboard.
We have the second sidebar Well that's it for this lesson in the next lesson.
We will continue to talk about sidebars you stoon that you place the sidebars within the theme and that's
what you'll be learning how to do.
See you later.
And happy coding.